---
title: From discussion with Jim on 2021-09-01
author: Andrew
---

The classes we discussed so far generally fall under model building,
parameters, and sigex fit. We already have a start on model building and
parameters, and Jim is going to start on sigex fit.

1. Fitting an MLE should look something like this:

	```{r}
	fit = sigex.mle(model, data, param.init = param)
	```

	a. `param` is an optional SigexParam argument which will default to `zero` if
	   nothing is specified.
	a. `model` is a SigexModel that encapsulates the number of latent components.
	   It contains one or more SigexModelComponent objects, where each describes
	   the differencing polynomials used for that component, the stationary
	   structure, and other component-level information.
	a. `data` contains the actual time series data.
  

1. The result `fit` from a sigex fit should be another useful class. Suppose we
  call it a SigexFit or SigexFitMLE (if there are other fit objects that need
  to be treated differently, like MOM).

	a. Have a `show` method that prints out the estimates. Should be able to
	   select the component by epithet and/or component index. Displayed output
	   should make sense for the particular component type. For example, here is
	   Jim's mock-up when displaying the whole fit.

	   ```{r}
	   > summary(fit) 
	   Trend component: VARMA(2, 1) with delta = 1 - B:
	   Phi1 = [1 0]  Phi2 = [.5  0]  Theta = [2  0]  Sigma = [1 0]
	          [0 1]         [ 0 .1]          [0  2]          [0 1]

	   Irregular component:
	   Sigma = [.87  -.02]
	           [-.02  .75]
	   ```

	   Then for displaying just one component:
	   ```{r}
	   > summary(fit, “trend”)
	   Trend component: VARMA(2, 1) with delta = 1 - B:
	   Phi1 = [1 0]  Phi2 = [.5  0]  Theta = [2  0]  Sigma = [1 0]
	          [0 1]         [ 0 .1]          [0  2]          [0 1]
	   ```

	a. We also want residuals by calling `resid(fit)`. This would compute
	   residuals based on the fitted model and the observations which were
	   originally used to compute the fit.

	a. We also want predictions, but this may be worth another discussion
	   because this may be getting further into time series than I am comfortable.
